We'll since the last video I've done a little work on the shoulder armor here you can see what I've
done over here in the editor Ed. I'm going to press control up arrow and maximize that screen a bit
so you can see I've just done some painting to try and emphasize the scope to detail on the shoulder
piece there.
Just try and give the normal map sculpted detail a little bit of extra pop kind of creating highlights
and shadows for the designs.
So what I've been doing is just coming in here.
Let's see.
I don't think I've done this one yet.
Let me see yeah I haven't worked on this one yet.
So what I've been doing is just coming in here going to my details slot here.
Going back to the Tools tab.
And I've got a light color here that I'll choose.
And let me shrink the brush down a bit.
So I'm just going to go over some of this detail here and you can see it kind of coming in as I paint
on it and just lightly trying to emphasize the highlight and shadow of this piece or have the details
on it.
Just lightly going over it here.
And then once I do that then I'll come back with a darker color.
And emphasize the indentations or the shadows.
Let me go back down here and reduce the spacing just a bit.
See if that helps me some.
Yeah I think that'll work.
So I'm just going to come in here and try and catch these highlights and then I'll switch back to a
darker color let's say.
Let's try this.
Or maybe even darker here I think and then I'll come in here and try and increase the shadows just a
bit.
I'll bring the strength back just a hair.
There we go.
So you can see that coming in over here.
Now I've got another one over here I don't think I've worked on that one yet.
Let me do this real quick.
And once again I'll take the strength back just a hair again.
And maybe reduce the jitter slightly and let me work on this here.
I better change the color and we go and I think this will be coming in right over here
yeah you can see it coming in right in here.
Now
now as I'm doing this you may notice that it's kind of hard to see actually on the model.
What I'm doing here on the model itself and a lot of that is because of the specular highlights that
the Hemi lights are imparting to the model and we can actually turn those off to get a sense of how
we're doing while we're painting or after we paint just to see how we've done.
All right.
So I've got these laid down here.
Let's take a look at the texturing without the specular highlights.
So if I come over here to one of the Hemmy lights if I select that you can see I've got the option to
have it emit both diffuse which is the color or the specular which is the shiny a..
So if I turn that off you can see that some of that shining is goes away here.
Let me turn that on and turn it off.
And that's because I've got two Hemi lights in the scene here so I've got one here one here one kind
of shining at an angle on the front and one on the back.
And so currently I'm selecting this front one for the Hemmy up front.
If we select the one in the back here and turn off the specular highlights you can really see what the
texturing looks like now.
So you can see what I've done with just this kind of splatter of color as well as going in and tracing
the highlights and the shadows of the scope to detail.
So any time you can always come over here and turn off the specular highlights for your hemi lights
just to see how you're doing.
Or sometimes I like to just have one on so maybe have this one on or turn this off.
And this went on so you can get a different look on your model as you're painting.
All right.
Well I think that's pretty good for the armor.
I'm going to turn the specular on in the back here like this just to take a look at that.
I think that's looking pretty good for now.
Let's go ahead and move on to another part of the model.
I'm thinking that I kind of want to work on the little Toga here.
We can always come back and work on the gloves and the boots.
They're a similar kind of color as the leather straps that we've done.
And if we're going to come back to that at some point we better save those colors or save that pallet.
So I'm going to come back here and choose my low poly character.
And now we're back into texture paint mode over here.
So these colors here have really been used to work with the straps and the metal.
And when I come back to the leather texture for the boots and the gloves I'm going to want to have access
to these colors again.
Yes I could sample them again off of the U-V map here but I think it'd be better if I could maintain
this color palette.
So what I want to do is come over here and I'm going to rename this pallet or call this like call it
straps and metal and go.
And now if I go to the next palette I have I'm going to click here and choose the next one.
Now maybe this one I could call or call this one cloth.
And this is the one that's going to have the color swatches for his clothes here.
So I don't need these right now.
These were just temporary.
I want to delete these.
There we go.
So now I can work on building up color swatches for this palette so I can work on the cloth.
But to do that I'm going to need reference images as you can tell.
I do a lot of sampling off of photographs and real world images to help me get the colors more accurate.
So what I need to go find a few reference images.
But quickly before I do that I'm just going to go to the slots tab and be sure and click save all images
so that I don't lose what I just did.
If I exit out of Blender I'll also of course press control or command s to save the scene as well.
All right I'm going to go take a look for some textures.
So here in Google Images I'm searching for Lin and drape fold cloth texture and I've found a couple
I like I kind of like this down here.
I may grab this fact.
I think I will.
And there are some others down here that are kind of nice I like this as well so I'll grab that.
And there were some others here let me go back.
There were some.
This is kind of nice because it shows the highlight and shadow of drapes.
This kind of helps I think.
Let me grab this one here.
All right.
I think that should do it.
For now let's go back to blender and bring these in.
All right to bring our cloth animal just once again come over here.
Go to the open image browse to my cloth.
I'll bring this one in.
That looks good.
That's got some nice color variation there.
That's what I'm looking for.
And then I'll also bring that third one in.
So I get some sense of the drape and the light and dark shadows of that cloth Yeah I think these will
help a lot.
All right.
I think we're set up to start working on the cloth here we'll begin that in the next video.